= has_foreign_language

has_foreign_language makes it easy to internationalize your database without mucking up your views and controllers or having to write a bunch of YAML.
Just create fields for each locale you want to support in addition to your default field and has_foreign_language will automatically call the appropriate one based on the current locale.

== Installation

==== Using Rails 3

Include the gem in your Gemfile:

  gem "has_foreign_language", :git => "git://github.com/dalpo/has_foreign_language.git"

Or as a plugin:

  rails plugin install git://github.com/dalpo/has_foreign_language.git


== Example

=== First create your model:

  rails g model book title:string description:text

=== Then specify which fields need to be internationalized in your model:

  class Country < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_foreign_language :title, :description
  end

=== Finally generate a migration with internationalized fields:

Sintax:

  rails g has_foreign_language <language> [Model]

Example:

  rails g has_foreign_language it


Now let's create a book in the console and see how this works:

  I18n.default_locale = "en"
  b = Book.new(:title => "Slaughterhouse Five", :title_fr => "Abattoir Cinq", :title_de => "Schlachthof Fünf")
  b.title # Slaughterhouse Five
  
  I18n.locale = "fr"
  b.title # Abattoir Cinq
  
  I18n.locale = "de"
  b.title # Schlachthof Fünf
  
Calling title on the model returns the appropriate column depending on which locale we're in.  This also works when we change the attribute:  
  
  I18n.locale = "de"
  b.title = "Etwas Anderes"
  b # Book id: nil, title: "Slaughterhouse Five", title_fr: "Abattoir Cinq", title_de: "Etwas Anderes"

If you want to set or return the default language attribute while in a different locale, you can call it the way you would call any other. Assuming the default is "en", you would run:

  b.title_en # Slaughterhouse Five
  b.title_en = "Something Else" # Book id: nil, title: "Something Else", title_fr: "Abattoir Cinq", title_de: "Etwas Anderes"


  
  
== Validations

Validations are easy.  Just run the validation on the default field name and it will apply to whatever locale you're in.

  class Country < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_foreign_language :title
    validates_presence_of :title
  end

  I18n.locale = "de"
  b = Book.new(:title => "Etwas Anderes") # Book id: nil, title: nil, title_fr: nil, title_de: "Etwas Anderes"
  b.valid? # true
  
  I18n.locale = "en"
  b.valid? # false
  
  b.title = "Slaughterhouse Five"
  b.valid? # true
  
  
Copyright (c) 2008 factor[e] design initiative, released under the MIT license